Contatta
gennaro.scarati@outlook.com

www.linkedin.com/in/
gennaroscarati (LinkedIn)
github.com/gennscar (Other)
orcid.org/
%200009-0000-5255-0635 (Other)

Competenze principali
C++
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Python (Programming Language)

Languages
Italian (Native or Bilingual)
English (Full Professional)
German (Elementary)
Spanish (Full Professional)

Certifications
Learn ROS2 as a ROS1 Developer
and Migrate Your ROS Projects
IELTS 7.0 - C1 Proficiency
ROS for Beginners: Basics, Motion,
and OpenCV

Gennaro Scarati

Robotics & AI Engineer @ Eurecat | General Motors
Spagna

Riepilogo
Robotics and AI Engineer with a deep knowledge of Robotic
Systems Design, ROS and ROS2. Extensive experience with
Collaborative robots, UAVs, and Computer Vision & AI applied to
robotics.
Passionate about hiking, travels on foot, camping and mountain.

Esperienza
Eurecat - Technology Centre of Catalonia
Robotics & AI Engineer
luglio 2023 - Present (1 anno 11 mesi)
Barcellona, Catalogna, Spagna

▪ Research, design and implement autonomous robotics (path planning,
localization, controls) and computer vision systems (detection, segmentation,
tracking).
▪ Extensive hands-on experience with manipulators (KUKA, Universal
Robots, ...), drones, RGB-D and thermal cameras, diverse end-effectors

Machine Learning

(vacuum, magnetic, finger grippers), and various mechatronic systems.

ROS for Beginners II: Localization,
Navigation and SLAM

▪ Define robotic systems requirements and manage technical interactions with

Honors-Awards

customers and suppliers to ensure alignment with project specifications and
technical objectives.
▪ Lead projects for both private clients and public organizations, including

Study award

national and European programs.

Language scholarship

▪ Coordinate project proposal preparation and execution, focusing on technical

Study award
EBEC Turin Winning Team
"Challenge@Polito: Artificial
Intelligence" Winning Team

documentation, budget planning, resource allocation, and milestone definition.

Dumarey Softronix
Controls System Engineer

marzo 2022 - luglio 2023 (1 anno 5 mesi)
Turin, Piedmont, Italy
▪ Contractor For General Motors.
▪ Defined specifications and developed control and diagnostic systems for
General Motors vehicles (GMC Sierra and Chevrolet Silverado, 2024–2027),
with projected deployment on around 100,000 vehicles in 2024 alone.
Page 1 of 3

▪ Improved engine diagnostic systems using Six Sigma analysis, machine
learning estimation techniques, and genetic programming for calibration
optimization.
▪ Collaborated with cross-functional teams in Italy, the U.S., and India to meet
development, calibration, and production milestones.
▪ Defined control systems and testing requirements in an Agile (Scrum)
environment, leveraging the V-Model lifecycle and Model-Based Systems
Engineering (MBSE) methodologies.
▪ Developed automated testing methods for control algorithms and calibrations
in simulation environments, complemented by test bench validation and both
SIL and HIL testing to ensure robust system performance.

PIC4SeR - Politecnico di Torino Interdepartmental Centre for Service
Robotics
Master's Thesis Researcher - UAV Autonomous Landing on Moving
Rovers
marzo 2021 - dicembre 2021 (10 mesi)

▪ Developed and validated an UAV Autonomous Landing Technology for
precise landings on moving platforms, including the full design, simulation,
implementation and experimental testing of localization techniques (UWB and
custom Kalman Filters), control algorithms, and state machines to manage all
chasing and landing phases.
▪ Achieved centimeter-level landing precision in real-world field testing with a
custom UAV and rover, following extensive simulation using real sensor noise
data and subsequent implementation and validation of the developed systems
in real scenarios.

Formazione
Politecnico di Torino
Master of Engineering - MEng, Mechatronics, Robotics, and Automation
Engineering · (settembre 2019 - dicembre 2021)

Politecnico di Torino
Bachelor of Engineering - BE, Mechanical Engineering · (2016 - 2019)

School of Entrepreneurship & Innovation (SEI)
SEI Inventor - Specialised Course, Entrepreneurship/Entrepreneurial
Studies · (settembre 2020 - settembre 2020)
Page 2 of 3

Collegio Universitario di Torino Renato Einaudi
· (settembre 2016 - 2021)

Page 3 of 3

