Gennaro Scarati
Barcelona, Spain | LinkedIn Profile | (+34) 672 918 951 | gennaro.scarati@outlook.com
EXPERIENCE
Robotics & AI Engineer, Eurecat

Barcelona, Spain

July 2023 – Present
▪ Research and implement state-of-the-art robotics (path planning, localization, controls), AI and computer
vision features (detection, segmentation, tracking). Gained extensive experience with collaborative robots
(KUKA, Universal Robots), RGB-D and thermal cameras, NVIDIA Jetson and CUDA devices, diverse endeffectors (vacuum, magnetic, finger grippers), and various mechatronic systems.
▪ Define robotic systems requirements and manage technical interactions with customers and suppliers to
ensure alignment with projects specifications and technical objectives, while leading project-specific robotics
teams (3–5 members) to meet deadlines and performance targets.
▪ Design and develop robotics and autonomous systems for both private and publicly funded projects
(national and European). Coordinate project proposal preparation, focusing on technical documentation, budget
planning, resource allocation, and milestone definition.
Key Technologies: C++, Python, Jira, ROS, ROS2, Git, OpenCV, Docker, Linux

Control Systems Engineer, Dumarey Softronix

Turin, Italy

March 2022 – July 2023
▪ Defined specifications and developed engine control and diagnostic systems for General Motors vehicles
(GMC Sierra and Chevrolet Silverado, 2024–2027 models), with projected deployment on nearly 100,000 vehicles
in 2024 alone.
▪ Improved engine diagnostic systems using Six Sigma analysis, machine learning estimation techniques, and
genetic programming for calibration optimization, resulting in projected cost savings of over €8 million.
▪ Defined control systems and testing requirements in an Agile (Scrum) environment, leveraging the V-Model
lifecycle and Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) methodologies. Collaborated with cross-functional
teams in Italy, the US, and India to meet development, calibration, and production milestones.
▪ Developed automated testing methods for control algorithms and calibrations in simulation
environments, complemented by test bench validation and both Software-in-the-Loop (SIL) and Hardware-inthe-Loop (HIL) testing to ensure robust system performance and reliability.
Key Technologies: DOORS, Jira, MATLAB, Simulink, C, Python, Git, ETAS INCA, MDA

EDUCATION
Master’s Thesis Researcher, PIC4SeR – Politecnico di Torino Centre for Service Robotics

Turin, Italy

March 2021 – December 2021
▪ Developed and validated an Autonomous UAV Landing Technology for precise landings on moving
platforms, including the full design, simulation, implementation, and experimental testing of localization
techniques (UWB and custom Kalman Filters), control algorithms, and state machines to manage all chase and
landing phases.
▪ Achieved centimeter-level landing precision in real-world field tests with a custom UAV and rover, following
extensive simulations using real sensor noise data and subsequent implementation and validation of the
developed systems in real scenarios (link to simulation, link to field tests).

Master’s Degree in Mechatronic Engineering, Politecnico di Torino

Turin, Italy

September 2019 – December 2021
▪ Final grade: 110 with honours/110 (GPA: 29.9/30)
▪ Won first place at “Challenge@Polito: Artificial Intelligence” with an NLP software application that automatically
generates concept maps from texts, which contributed to the creation of an AI startup that raised over €1.5
million in investments.

Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering, Politecnico di Torino

Turin, Italy

September 2016 – September 2019
▪ Final grade: 110/110

TECHNICAL CERTIFICATIONS
▪

Machine Learning

Stanford University Online

LANGUAGES
▪
▪
▪
▪

Italian
Native
English Advanced (C1 IELTS Certificate – Professional working proficiency)
Spanish Advanced (C1, Professional working proficiency)
German Elementary Proficiency (A2)

PUBLICATIONS
▪

European Robotics Forum 2025 – Advances on Affordable Hardware Platforms for Human Demonstration
Acquisition in Agricultural Applications (Accepted for presentation at the ERF in Stuttgart, March 2025).

